## MALA

The original **Langevin formula** describes Brownian motion. Due to the collision of fluid molecules, particles move irregularly in the fluid
```math
m\frac{d^2x}{dt^2}=-\lambda\frac{dx}{dt}+\eta(t)
```
where $`-\lambda\frac{dx}{dt}`$ represents the fluid viscosity, $`\eta(t)`$ represents the collision force caused by molecular thermal motion, also known as thermal fluctuation.

Obtain the solution
```math
\bar{x^2}=2Dt=2\frac{k_BT}{\lambda}t
```

here, $`D=\frac{k_BT}{\lambda}`$, which means the square of the distance between the average motion position of Brownian motion particles and the origin (initial point) is proportional to time.

NOTE：式子的解表示粒子能跑到的范围

**Simulated annealing (SA)** is a probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function. Specifically, it is a metaheuristic to approximate global optimization in a large search space for an optimization problem. 

The state of some physical systems, and the function $E(s)$ to be minimized, is analogous to the internal energy of the system in that state. The goal is to bring the system, from an arbitrary initial state, to a state with the minimum possible energy.

**Algorithm Metropolis adjusted Langevin algorithm (MALA).**

$(1)$ Choose an initial state $\theta^{(0)}$, the discretization step $\Delta\tau$, the total number of iterations $(T)$, and the burn-in period $(T_b)$.

$(2)$ FOR $`t=1,\cdots,T`$:\\
(a) Draw $z\sim N(0,I), u\sim U([0,1))$ and simulate a new sample from the Langevin diffusion:
```math
\theta'=\theta^{(t-1)}+\frac{\Delta\tau}{2}\nabla log\pi(\theta^{(t-1)})+\sqrt{\Delta\tau}z
```

(b) Compute the acceptance probability ($\alpha_t$):
```math
\alpha(\theta',\theta^{(t-1)})=min[1,\frac{\pi(\theta')N(\theta^{(t-1)}|\theta'+\frac{\Delta\tau}{2}\nabla log\pi(\theta')),\Delta\tau I} {\pi(\theta^{(t-1)})N(\theta'|\theta^{(t-1)}+\frac{\Delta\tau}{2}\nabla log\pi(\theta^{(t-1)})),\Delta\tau I}]
```

(c)If $`u\leq \alpha_t`$, accept $\theta'$ and set $\theta^{(t)}=\theta'$. Otherwise (i.e., if $`u>\alpha_t`$), reject $`\theta'`$ and set $`\theta^{(t)}=\theta^{(t-1)}`$.

$(3)$  Approximate the integral
```math
\hat{I}_{(T-T_b)}=\frac{1}{T-T_b}\sum_{t=T_b+1}^{T}g(\theta^{(t)})
```
NOTE：原始的退火方程为
```math
d\theta(\tau)=\frac{1-2d}{2}\pi_u^{1-2d}(\theta(\tau))\nabla log\pi_u \theta(\tau)+\pi_u^{-d}(\theta(\tau))db(\tau)
```
其中$`d`$的取值范围是$`[0,\frac{1}{2}]`$，表示温度的高低，在最终稳态时温度取最低也就是$d=0$；$\pi_u$表示扩散方程，因此算法氪简化为如上形式。

